Objective
The objective of this project is to gain insights into the applications hosted on Google Playstore and the sentiment of their user reviews and present these ingsights in the form of visualisation which can be used to improve the overall experience and optimise the application development processes
 Tools Used
 Microsoft Excel
 MySQL Workbench
Project Files Description
This Project includes 1 SQL text file.
Data Source : Kaggle
playstore_apps.csv - It contains the basic details of the app like number of user reviews, ratings, etc.

App: It contains the name of the app with a short description (optional).
Category: This section gives the category to which an app belongs. In this dataset, the apps are divided among 33 categories.
Size: The disk space required to install the respective app.
Rating: The average rating given by the users for the respective app. It can be in between 1 and 5.
Reviews: The number of users that have dropped a review for the respective app.
Installs: The approximate number of times the respective app was installed.
Type: It states whether an app is free to use or paid.
Price: It gives the price payable to install the app. For free type apps, the price is zero.
Content rating: It states which age group is suitable to consume the content of the respective app.
Genres: It gives the genre(s) to which the respective app belongs.
Last updated: It gives the day in which the latest update for the respective app was released.
Current Ver: It gives the current version of the respective app.
Android Ver: It gives the android version of the respective app.
playstore_reviews.csv - It contains the user reviews for respective app.
• Problem Statements-
1. Total number of apps present in the Google playstore dataset.
2. Number of Categories present in the dataset.
3. All categories with the number of apps in them.
4. Average rating and average size of all the apps.
5. Overview of all categories wrt Number of installs, least rated app, highest rated app, number of free apps and number of paid apps in that category in that category.
6. Which are the top 10 highest rated apps in the given available dataset?
7. What are the number of installs and reviews for the above apps? Return the apps with the highest reviews to the top.
8. Which app has the highest number of reviews? Also, mention the number of reviews and category of the app.
9. What is the total amount of revenue generated by the google play store by hosting apps? (Whenever a user buys apps from the google play store, the amount is considered in the revenue)
10. Which Category of google play store apps has the highest number of installs? Also, find out the total number of installs for that particular category.
11. Which Genre has the most number of published apps?
12. Find the count of apps in each content rating based on App type.
13. Create a new column to bucket rating to high(4-5), medium(2-4), low(0-2). Return the app names.
14. Return categories with their sentiment counts for each type of sentiment.
15. Provide the list of all games ordered in such a way that the game that has the highest number of installs is displayed on the top.
16. List all non-entertainment and non-education apps that are rated by everyone or teen.
17. List all the apps whose app names contain the letter “i” or start with the letter “D”
18. Return the app names, categories, sizes, release dates (rename it to “Last Updated”) of apps whose app names have more than 1 word, and whose categories are music and social, and whose sizes are bigger than 10. Order the output result by maximum installs in descending order, then release dates in ascending order.
19. Find the number of apps in each category that have a rating greater than the average rating.
20. List the largest app size within each app category.
